https://velur.kiev.ua/davnoslovyanski-runi-i-%D1%97x-znachennya/
https://velur.kiev.ua/slovyanski-runi-i-%D1%97x-znachennya/
https://www.unian.ua/lite/astrology/slov-yanski-runi-za-datoyu-narodzhennya-znachennya-i-krashchiy-oberig-11850210.html

https://symbolikon.com/downloads/category/latvian-symbols/
https://symbolikon.com/downloads/category/slavic-symbols/

# Runes

 **Slavic symbols** originate from Northern Europe and Eurasia. The Slavs, who
were their creators, are an ethnic group that has existed in Europe since at
least the time of the Romans. Slavs are the largest ethnic group in Europe
that share a linguistic and cultural history.
Ancient Slavs lived in tribal societies, presided over by tribal chieftains,
and practiced a multi-theistic form of Paganism. Over time, however, tribes
were consolidated and, not long after, most converted to Christianity.
The symbols in this category predominantly originate from the pre-Christian
period and are related to the gods (bogs) of the Pagan Slavic mythology.
The **Slavic mythology** personified many aspects of the world, with
worshipers believing that waters, forests, households and even illnesses were
represented or governed by spirits. Equally important to the Slavic mythology
was the worship of ancestors, though the tribes did not keep ancestral
records. It was believed that dead ancestors existed within the same spiritual
plane as the Slavic deities.
Also worshipped were primary gods, associated with the sun, moon, skies,
heaven and the underworld. The Slavs believed in three planes of existence:
the heavens, governed by Perun, Dazhbog, Mokosh and Lada, symbolized by the
sun and the moon; the earthly plane, occupied by humanity; and the underworld,
symbolized by snakes and darkness, ruled over by Veles.
In the modern day, some ancient **Slavic rituals** persist in Eastern and
Northern Europe. Others have been assimilated by Christian teaching and
aligned with new beliefs. A new Pagan belief system, Rodnovery, has arisen in
recent years, claiming to be a continuation of the ancient Slavic beliefs that
Christianity replaced in the middle ages.

[![Ruevit Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-ruevit-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/ruevit-
slavic/)

## [Ruevit](/downloads/ruevit-slavic/)

 **Ruevit** is a local, warrior god. He is the guardian and protector of the
Isle of Rügen in the Baltic Sea. There is some debate as to whether his name
translates to ‘Lord of Rugia/Rügen” or “Roaring/Howling Lord.” Symbolically,
Ruevit is associated with autumn and the east.

[![Zhiva Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-zhiva-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/zhiva-
slavic/)

## [Zhiva](/downloads/zhiva-slavic/)

 **Zhiva** (or Živa) is the goddess of life in the Slavic mythology. Her name
translates as ‘She who lives.’ Zhiva represents fertility, love and marriage.
She is the opposing personification to Mara, the goddess of death.

[![Yarilo Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-yarilo-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/yarilo-
slavic/)

## [Yarilo](/downloads/yarilo-slavic/)

 **Yarilo** , in the Slavic mythology, is the god of springtime, fertility,
sexuality and peace. His name, sometimes styled as Jarilo, comes from the
Russian for ‘bright’ or ‘bright lord.’ Yarilo represents youth and rebirth.

[![Viy Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-viy-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/viy-slavic/)

## [Viy](/downloads/viy-slavic/)

In the Slavic mythology, **Viy** (or Bog Viy) is the guardian of the Heavenly
Border, which separates the ‘Light Halls’ – the spiritual world inhabited by
the gods and dead souls – from the ‘Dark Halls’ – populated by demons and evil
spirits. Viy watches over the Slavs, and makes note of their good and bad
deeds. For those who do wrong, Viy punishes them with nightmares and terrible
visions.

[![Veles Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-veles-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/veles-
slavic/)

## [Veles](/downloads/veles-slavic/)

In the Slavic mythology, **Veles** (or Bog Veles) is the guardian of the
Heavenly Gates, which separate the spiritual world from the physical world. He
is associated with herders and cattle farmers. It is believed that, for this
reason, Veles’ symbol has stylized horns. Veles is associated with creativity,
honesty and determination, as well as common sense wisdom and personal
responsibility.

[![Trojan Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-trojan-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/trojan-
slavic/)

## [Trojan](/downloads/trojan-slavic/)

The **Trojan** symbol represents Triglav, which translates literally as
‘three-headed.’ The three heads in question are those of Svarog, Perun and
Veles. These gods are the personifications of the heavens, the earth and the
underworld. The Trojan symbol also represents the three elements: air, water
and earth.
Finally, the Trojan symbol may be said to connote the three dimensions of
time: past, present and future.

[![Sventovit Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-sventovit-
bold-400w.png)](/downloads/sventovit-slavic/)

## [Sventovit](/downloads/sventovit-slavic/)

 **Sventovit** is the Slavic god of war. His symbol represents the connection
between the waters of the earth and the fires of heaven. It is from this
connection that new souls emerge. The Sventovit symbol is one of protection
for pregnant women, and wearing it is said to encourage the birth of healthy
children. It is also a symbol for those going through spiritual hardship or
hard toil, offering strength and perseverance to those who need it.

[![Svarog Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-svarog-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/svarog-
slavic/)

## [Svarog](/downloads/svarog-slavic/)

 **Svarog** , in the Slavic mythology, was the god of fire, sun and heaven
(heaven being the world of the gods and dead souls). He was associated with
blacksmiths and the forging of iron. In some versions of the mythology, Svarog
is the creator of many of the other gods, and a slayer of dragons. He
represents virility.

[![Svarozhich Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-svarozhich-
bold-400w.png)](/downloads/svarozhich-slavic/)

## [Svarozhich](/downloads/svarozhich-slavic/)

The **Svarozhich** (or Svarojich) is the symbol of Svarog. Svarog is the
creator of the other gods, associated with smithery. The Svarozhich, then, is
the heavenly fire from which the gods were forged. It guards the living from
destruction, and from the degradation of the soul and spirit.

[![Stribog Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-stribog-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/stribog-
slavic/)

## [Stribog](/downloads/stribog-slavic/)

In Slavic mythology, **Stribog** was the god of air, wind and storms. Stribog
translates to mean ‘wealth spreader,’ and he was said to connect the earth to
the heavens. As the personification of wind, Stribog was often symbolically
invited inside the home, or to meals, due to wind being associated with the
distribution of wealth or riches.

[![Semargl Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-semargl-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/semargl-
slavic/)

## [Semargl](/downloads/semargl-slavic/)

 **Semargl** is a chimerical creature in the Slavic mythology, often depicted
as a lion or large dog with wings. Semargl represents good fortune, drinking,
and abundance. He is a symbol of protection for sailors.

[![Rod Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-rod-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/rod-slavic/)

## [Rod](/downloads/rod-slavic/)

 **Rod** is the original, supreme Slavic deity, who created the world and all
that exists within it. In Slavic mythology, Rod separated the physical world
from the spiritual world. Rod is often depicted as a man, holding a fish,
wheel, flowers and wearing a linen belt which moves in the wind. These
accoutrements represent four elements: water, earth, sun and air. The symbol
of Rod is a circle containing a rose with six petals reaching out towards the
edges.

[![Raróg Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-rarog-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/rarog-
slavic/)

## [Raróg](/downloads/rarog-slavic/)

The **Raróg** , in Slavic mythology and legend, is a fire demon. The Raróg
usually was depicted taking the form of a phoenix, falcon or other bird of
prey.

[![Radegast Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-radegast-
bold-400w.png)](/downloads/radegast-slavic/)

## [Radegast](/downloads/radegast-slavic/)

 **Radegast** is the Slavic god of strength, honor and hospitality. The name
‘Radegast’ translates approximately to ‘dear guest’ or ‘welcomed guest.’ He is
associated with many animals, particularly birds and snakes.

[![Prov Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-prov-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/prov-
slavic/)

## [Prov](/downloads/prov-slavic/)

The symbol for **Prov** represents truth. Truth is sometimes personified as a
god, Prov, who is the guardian of the law, lawfulness and righteousness.

[![Perun Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-perun-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/perun-
slavic/)

## [Perun](/downloads/perun-slavic/)

 **Perun** is the Slavic god of thunder, and of war. He is representative of
the destructive, masculine force of nature. He is likely to have been the
highest ranking god in the Slavic tradition, similar to Zeus in Ancient Greek
mythology. He was associated with thunder, lightning, storms, fire, mountains,
fertility, law, war and weapons.

[![Nemiza Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-nemiza-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/nemiza-
slavic/)

## [Nemiza](/downloads/nemiza-slavic/)

 **Nemiza** is the Slavic god of death, in that he or she would “cut the
thread of life.” The god was depicted, at different times, as both male and
female. Nemiza brought unhappiness with death, but also ended suffering,
ushering souls from one life into the next.

[![Morok Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-marok-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/morok-
slavic/)

## [Morok](/downloads/morok-slavic/)

 **Morok** , which translates literally as ‘darkness’ in modern Russian, is
the Slavic god of ignorance, error, deceit and lies. Perhaps surprisingly, he
is also a guardian of truth, hiding truthfulness from the vain and the
selfish.

[![Mara Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-mara-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/mara-
slavic/)

## [Mara](/downloads/mara-slavic/)

The goddess **Mara** , sometimes ‘Marzanna’, in Slavic Paganism represented
the death and rebirth of nature, particularly the end of winter and the
beginning of spring. She is the goddess of death, rebirth, rural places and
young plants. In some cultures, an effigy of Mara is ‘drowned’ (sometimes
burned) to more quickly bring about the end of winter and the beginning of
spring.

[![Mokosh Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-makosh-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/mokosh-
slavic/)

## [Mokosh](/downloads/mokosh-slavic/)

 **Mokosh** is sometimes called the ‘Great Mother’. She is the Slavic god of
female endeavours, such as spinning, weaving, and shearing. She offers
protection to women during childbirth. Mokosh is associated with destiny and
fate, particularly the destiny of women.

[![Lada Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-lada-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/lada-
slavic/)

## [Lada](/downloads/lada-slavic/)

 **Lada** is the Slavic goddess of beauty and fertility. Her symbol, or star,
serves as protection against negative energy or dark forces. The four points
of the star represent faith, freedom, righteousness and honor, while the
circle represents the Sun.

[![Kupalo Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-kupalo-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/kupalo-
slavic/)

## [Kupalo](/downloads/kupalo-slavic/)

 **Kupalo** is the Slavic god of the summer solstice. Often represented as a
female deity, she represents joy, water and the midday sun. Kupala night is
still celebrated in many Northern European countries on the summer solstice,
as the Pagan Slavic tradition was assimilated into early Christian rituals.

[![Koliada Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-koliada-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/koliada-
slavic/)

## [Koliada](/downloads/koliada-slavic/)

The word ‘ **Koliada** ’ is derived from the Slavic word for ‘wheel’ or
‘cycle’. Koliada is the God of the new year and of the rising of the new sun
each day. He represents the changing of the seasons and the Koliada festival
is held after the winter solstice. It is likely that the English word
‘calendar’ is derived from this symbol name. Koliada is sometimes called
Tausen.

[![Hors Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-hors-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/hors-
slavic/)

## [Hors](/downloads/hors-slavic/)

Bog **Hors** is a god of the sun and the sunlight. He is the guardian of good
weather. It is Bog Hors who ensures that the harvest is plentiful and the
cattle are healthy. He ensures that the hunt is successful and that fishermen
catch many fish.

[![Dodola Slavic symbols](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-dodola-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/dodola-
slavic/)

## [Dodola](/downloads/dodola-slavic/)

 **Dodola** is the Slavic Goddess of rain, sometimes thought to be the goddess
of the air, also. The Pagan ritual of Dodola is still practiced in parts of
Northern Europe and the Baltic States, in which a young boy or girl sings and
dances through the village, collecting money that will be spent on a feast in
honor of Perun (the god of thunder), for whom Dodola is a wife.

[![Dazhbog Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-dazhbog-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/dazhbog-
slavic/)

## [Dazhbog](/downloads/dazhbog-slavic/)

In Slavic mythology, **Dazhbog** is the sun god. He is a source of wealth,
sometimes translated as ‘wealth-giver’, and represents justice and well-being.
As with the sun in the sky, he is symbolic of the triumph of light over
darkness.

[![Chur Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-chur-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/chur-
slavic/)

## [Chur](/downloads/chur-slavic/)

The symbol **Chur** represents the god of boundaries and property, and the
delineation between that which belongs to one person, and that which belongs
to another.

[![Chernobog Slavic symbol](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-chernobog-
bold-400w.png)](/downloads/chernobog-slavic/)

## [Chernobog](/downloads/chernobog-slavic/)

 **Chernobog** translates literally to ‘black god.’ Slavic religion dealt
often in duality, meaning that the black god would oppose, or perhaps
compliment, the ‘white god’ (Belobog). For this reason, the symbol represents
darkness, night and death.

[![Belobog Slavic symbols](https://symbolikon.com/wp-
content/uploads/edd/2019/09/Slavic-belobog-bold-400w.png)](/downloads/belobog-
slavic/)

## [Belobog](/downloads/belobog-slavic/)

The **Belobog** symbol represents light, goodness, well-being and happiness
(the ‘white god’). The symbol grants the wearer good fortune and a plentiful
harvest. For this reason, the symbol represents wealth. It is a symbol, also,
of protection.

[![Slavic font](https://symbolikon.com/wp-content/uploads/edd/2020/10/Slavian-
font.jpg)](/downloads/slavic-font/)

## [Slavic font](/downloads/slavic-font/)

The earliest form of Cyrillic manuscript, known as **Ustav** , was based on
Greek uncial script, augmented by ligatures and by letters from the Glagolitic
alphabet for consonants not found in Greek. Currently based on early
Kirillitsa of the 9th – 10th century, used to translate religious script into
a new language.
The **Slavic Font** has been designed following the typical proportions of the
Ustav alphabet (Uncial), translating the calligraphic letters into modern
types that still keep the calligraphy effect but in more geometrical harmony.
The **Slavic Font** comes together with a family of **24 symbols** from
**Slavic symbolism**.

## Slavic Symbols Slideshow

## Download All Slavic Symbols

[All Access Pass](https://symbolikon.com/get-symbolikon/ "Get Symbolikon – All
Access Pass")

## Interested in Ancient Fonts?

[View Slavic Font](https://symbolikon.com/downloads/slavic-font/ "Slavic
Font")
